GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to Beyond Belief.
We've got an amazing
story for you tonight.
As a teenager, Jason
Shurka endured--
get this-- 23 shoulder
dislocations, three surgeries,
and a near leg amputation.
Drawing on the fundamental
laws of creation,
he transformed his life and now
inspires others to do the same.
Founder of UNIFYD TV and
Unified Healing, his latest book
is called Accessing Awareness.
Jason, welcome back
to Beyond Belief.
JASON SHURKA: Thank
you very much, George.
It's great to see you again.
GEORGE: 23 shoulder separations?
How did that happen?
SHURKA: It was a lot.
It started when I was 14.
It happened between 14
and 18, 19 years old.
So about four to five years.
GEORGE: Did you have an
accident or anything?
SHURKA: No.
The first time, I went
to reach for something,
it spontaneously popped out.
Never stopped, and it just
kept getting worse and worse.
Sometimes, it would
happen in my sleep.
GEORGE: Does it still happen?
SHURKA: No.
GEORGE: What happened
to make it stop?
SHURKA: Well, if
you ask the doctors,
they'll tell you surgery.
But once wasn't enough.
Twice wasn't enough.
The third one, I guess, was.
In my opinion, I see things
from a different perspective.
I believe that everything
happens for us, and not to us.
And when you learn the
lesson that something's
trying to teach
you, it doesn't have
to come back your way again.
So that's my way of seeing it.
The doctors may disagree,
but I understood over time--
and I'm still understanding--
but I understood
what it was trying to show me.
I acknowledged the lessons.
And why does it
have to happen again
if you already got the gift
it was trying to give you?
GEORGE: Can you move your
arm without much pain?
SHURKA: Very much so.
GEORGE: Look at you.
You're doing better than me.
Well, good for you.
SHURKA: Thank you.
GEORGE: But this set you on
a spiritual path, didn't it?
SHURKA: Yeah.
GEORGE: Tell me about that.
SHURKA: So you brought
up the leg amputation.
That's a big one because
that was the cherry on top.
So 14 years old, it started.
15, 16, 17, 18, 19.
On my 19th birthday, I was
in the hospital with a staph
infection in my left leg.
And that's a whole long
story in and of itself,
but I lost 25% of
my body weight.
GEORGE: God.
SHURKA: 19th birthday was there,
in dire need of as much support
as possible.
And it almost killed me.
It wasn't just a leg amputation.
I was about 24 hours away
from that hitting my blood
and it completely taking me out.
GEORGE: Almost like sepsis,
for crying out loud.
SHURKA: It was very, very bad.
So it was throughout that time
that really got me thinking.
It was the first time in my
life where I was laying down,
and I didn't have
a phone to look at,
and I didn't have a TV to watch.
And it was the first
time where I woke up
and I actually heard my
heartbeat for the first time.
Not just felt it,
but I heard it.
And I heard the
spaces in between.
The moments of silence
and stillness in between.
And it got me thinking, where
does all of this come from?
Where does all action,
where does all life actually
emerge from?
And it really is in those
moments of presence,
and those moments of stillness.
So that cherry on top was what
got me to start seeing things
in a different way.
And it just started downloading
into me like a machine.
And that's when I
started reading,
and that's when I
started writing.
GEORGE: How many books
did you start reading?
SHURKA: A lot.
So up until 19, I never
read a book in my life.
And the reason why was because I
was like a normal kid in school,
and I didn't want to be
the weird one or the nerd,
so I just kind of fit in.
Although, I was very
interested in things,
I just didn't want people to
look at me different because--
GEORGE: You didn't want them to
know what you were doing, right?
SHURKA: Yeah, kind of.
So I kind of sat there,
and for a long time,
I hid my true self
because I didn't
want to be looked at in
a weird way in school.
But 19, I picked
up my first book.
It was called The
One Minute Cure--
all about hydrogen peroxide.
It took me two or
three hours to read.
And the second one was
called Energy Medicine.
And I started getting into these
medical-but-spiritual aspects
of learning things.
GEORGE: Holistic.
SHURKA: Yeah,
holistic alternative.
And it brought me down this path
where it became this obsession.
I read like 40, 42
books that year,
and it started a beautiful path.
GEORGE: That's more books than
most people read in a lifetime.
SHURKA: But it wasn't just
reading, it was studying.
You see, if you go back
to those books on my shelf
and you open them, it's
highlighting, it's taking notes,
it's studying.
That's how you become
the information,
not just learn the information.
GEORGE: Who have you learned
from in terms of teachers?
SHURKA: Quite honestly,
the people that
hurt me the most in my life.
GEORGE: Oh, really?
SHURKA: Yeah.
I mean, it's not just me.
GEORGE: Without giving us names,
what kind of people hurt you?
SHURKA: People that
stab you in the back.
This is for everybody,
not just myself.
GEORGE: Friends.
SHURKA: Friends, family
members, business partners.
I truly, truly believe--
as hard as it may be-- going
through those tough experiences,
those are the experiences
where you learn the most.
It's the experiences where
you gain the most, where
you get the strongest.
And although they're hard, if we
can find a way to embrace them,
you become a completely
different and more evolved
person throughout those people.
So in a way, it's the
worst people in your life
that are really giving
you the greatest lessons.
GEORGE: You trusted
them, didn't you?
SHURKA: Big time.
GEORGE: How many times
did they hurt you?
SHURKA: Well,
quite a few people.
They didn't hurt
me, they helped me.
And we have to clear that
up because it wasn't--
yes, on the surface, it's
individuals hurting you.
And I'd encourage
everybody that's
watching this right now, think
of those individuals that
have hurt you in your life.
Think of those individuals
that you've been wronged by,
and try to understand what
they've actually taught you
through that process.
So yeah, on the
surface, they hurt me.
But at the core of it
all, they're my guides.
They're my teachers.
GEORGE: Do you deal
with them still?
SHURKA: Some.
GEORGE: Have you forgiven them?
SHURKA: Working on it.
GEORGE: That's the hardest part.
SHURKA: But it's the
most important part.
And I say "working
on it" and not "yes"
because I'm a human being
like everybody else.
And I think that's important
for us to relate to each other,
where you could be the greatest
guru and teacher out there.
We're all here to
learned something new.
We're all here to go
through experiences.
GEORGE: Did you teach
yourself, Jason?
Or did these events teach you?
SHURKA: That's a
beautiful question.
Well, every event,
every experience
has the ability to
teach us something,
but it's you as the
individual to make the choice,
through your own free
will, to be open enough
to see it in that way.
So all the things that
happened to me in my life,
and all the things that
happened to all of us
throughout our lives, have
the ability to teach us.
It was that moment
in my life that
happened where I decided
to open up and say, OK,
what are you trying to show me?
So I would say it's a
combination of both.
It's not so much
that I taught myself.
It's that I was open
to the teachings that
were in front of me all along.
GEORGE: Tell us about the
fundamental laws of creation.
What are they?
SHURKA: So I'll go to Greek
mythology, Greek teachers,
ancient teachers.
GEORGE: We're
going way back now.
SHURKA: Yeah.
There's a teacher, a
philosopher, named Parmenides.
Parmenides is famous for writing
two poems, The Way of Truth
and The Way of Opinion.
The Way of Opinion
is what most of us
live according to
today as human beings--
meaning, duality.
This and that, good and bad.
The Way of Truth
is what Parmenides
would say the gods
live according to,
which is singularity, oneness.
Those are two completely
different worlds.
GEORGE: You have learned
a lot, my friend.
SHURKA: They're actually
very short poems
that you can study
yourself, but they're
profound in terms
of what they teach.
So these laws of creation
that we're talking about here
is based on his work,
many other people's work.
It's not original to me
in any way whatsoever,
but I kind put my
own twist on it
and said, OK, how can we not
just know this, but apply this
and live according to it?
Now, am I perfect and
applied every single day?
No, I'm a human being.
But has it changed
over time in proportion
of being able to make
that second nature?
Absolutely.
So the base law--
the most important law,
they're all really important--
but the starting one is
the law of conservation
of energy, the first
law of thermodynamics.
Energy cannot be
created or destroyed.
Now, do you understand how
profound that is when you
think about what that means?
GEORGE: It is profound.
SHURKA: Death is an illusion.
There is no birth and
death, according to that.
Because me and you
are made up of energy.
Now, we all know this.
But when you take that and
you take it a step deeper,
let's understand
reality for a second.
What's the difference between
a reality where you're happy
and a reality where you're sad?
They're both something
you experience.
The difference is no different
than a radio of how you tune
to one frequency over another.
GEORGE: They're
both huge emotions.
SHURKA: They're both energies.
They're both frequencies.
The difference between joy
and sadness is a frequency.
It's made of the same energy
expressed in a different way.
So when you take the law
of conservation of energy,
energy cannot be
created or destroyed.
We understand that
infinite realities
exist right here, right now.
But then, when you merge that
with the law of vibration--
which is how
walkie-talkies work--
you experience what
you're in resonance with.
That means that if
you choose to tune
to one vibration
over another, and you
have an infinite
potential in front of you,
you will experience one life
or one reality over another.
Now, that's just philosophy.
The question is,
how do we apply it?
GEORGE: Have these laws changed
your direction, your path?
SHURKA: What changed my
direction is not just
the knowledge of the laws, it's
the application of the laws.
Now, everybody watching
this right now,
especially people on
this platform, on Gaia,
already know all of this.
The question is, what
can we do to actually
apply it into our own lives,
to make it second nature?
GEORGE: And make it work.
SHURKA: Exactly.
Moving it from the head
to not just the heart,
but to your being as a whole.
That's really the goal here.
And the more you apply
them every single day,
the more you remind yourself
to apply them every single day,
the more it does
become second nature.
So if you want to
dive into that,
I'm more than happy to do so.
GEORGE: You've
written several books.
The latest is
Accessing Awareness.
Tell us about that one.
SHURKA: Exactly about what
we're talking about here.
So it's all about the
knowledge with application
because knowledge
without application
is not really worth
much because--
OK, so I know something.
But are you doing something
with what you know?
It's great to know that
conscious speech exists,
but are you practicing
that conscious speech?
Are you aware of the words
that will hold you back?
that will propel you forward?
And when you mix knowledge
awareness with application,
you really do become
superhuman in many ways.
GEORGE: It works for you.
SHURKA: It works for everybody.
It does, it does.
GEORGE: Source code.
What is that?
SHURKA: So it goes back
to understanding reality.
And this is a very big topic,
so I'll try to make it simple.
But this actually is what
changed my life the most.
I'm going to give an
analogy for a second.
GEORGE: OK.
SHURKA: A computer, when
you're using a computer
and you go on to Gaia.com,
Gaia.com doesn't exist
in the way that we see it.
When we go on it, we see it
as videos, and thumbnails,
and comments, and
all these things.
Sure.
But that's not what Gaia.com is.
Gaia.com is made
of a source code
because Gaia has programmers
to make that source code work.
They write that code.
There are different
languages, of course.
There's C+, C++, Cobra, all
these different languages.
And then the job of the computer
is to take that source code
and, through its
components, whether it's
hard drive, and RAM, and
processor, and all these things,
to take that source code,
decode it, and then project it
as Gaia.com on your screen.
Now, that means that Gaia.com
is not what we think it is.
Not what the eye sees, but what
the source code actually is.
And with that same analogy,
we are no different.
We are those computers.
We have a brain, we have eyes,
we have ears, we have senses.
We have the ability to see,
to feel, to smell, to touch.
And then there's
this thing called
source code, which is just
creation and existence made up
of energy.
The job of our brains, the job
of our consciousness-- this
is the mechanism
of consciousness--
is through our
different components
the brain, the eyes,
the ears, the nose,
and so on and so forth,
to take that source
code light to decode it, and
then to project it as sound,
to project it as vision, to
project it as smell and taste
and so on and so forth.
And in that way, we are
creating our own reality,
quite literally.
Because although you have
eyes and I have eyes,
you may be able to
see somebody's aura,
and I may not be able
to see somebody's aura,
because your decoding mechanism
may be a little bit more
advanced than mine.
GEORGE: Why can't
you see them, though?
SHURKA: See the aura?
GEORGE: Yeah.
SHURKA: Take a computer.
Apple has different computers.
They have the M1 chip.
They have the M2 chip.
They have the M4 chip.
They have the M4 Pro Max chip.
We work the same way,
only in a spiritual way.
So although we have the same
components, your processing
power, based on your awareness,
based on your ability
to perceive and
be aware, this is
directly correlated to
your vibration of being.
The higher your vibration
of being, the faster
you'll be able to
process, the more
you'll be able to feel,
see, and experience.
So that's why individuals who
go on more spiritual journeys
are able to feel things in ways
that other individuals may not.
Or if you take the difference
between human beings and even
birds.
Birds and animals
are able to detect
a hurricane or an earthquake
before it happens.
Humans used to be able
to, and some still are.
But because we
stand on fake floor,
that fake ground
that we call shoes,
and we sleep on fake
ground that we call beds,
and we do all these things
that are no longer in alignment
with natural law
and natural living.
GEORGE: Not in sync.
SHURKA: We're not in
sync with everything,
with the resonance of
this planet anymore.
Our ability to process
is actually diminished,
and therefore, our
mechanism of consciousness
has actually slowed down.
But that doesn't mean
you can't regain it.
Regaining it means
purifying your components,
allowing more light to
come into your components,
bringing more oxygen
into your components,
allowing them to work better.
The more you can do that, the
more you'll be able to see.
GEORGE: Did you learn
this by trial and error?
SHURKA: Honestly, I
didn't learn this.
I remembered this one.
This is not something
that somebody taught me.
This is something
that made sense to me
as my vibration rose over time.
GEORGE: How can
an individual who
may not be as tuned in
as someone like you,
access their source code?
SHURKA: Well, first
of all, somebody
like me is not tuned in compared
to where you could actually be.
If you're comparing it to
the rest of most people,
I understand.
GEORGE: Yes.
SHURKA: And all I'll
say is exactly what I
do throughout my life.
There are four levels--
and this is a teaching now.
This is important.
There are four levels
to our beingness.
There's the body.
There's the mind, or
the motor of the body--
what makes your heart beat,
what makes your blood flow,
what makes a cut turn
into a scab and heal,
and so on and so forth--
your body, your mind, your
spirit, and your soul.
Your soul being the
unidentified, no-name version
of you.
And your spirit being
the identified light
of that piece of your soul.
So I'll give you an analogy
to understand better,
and you'll see where I'm going.
If you have a tree, the tree
has roots, it has a trunk,
it has branches, and it
has a canopy with leaves.
And if you compare
that to the body--
the root, the mind--
the trunk, the spirit--
the branches, and the
soul-- the canopy.
Most people that are trying
to elevate spiritually,
want to go straight to
the top of that tree,
but forget about
the roots of it.
And if your roots
are not strong,
and you try to climb them
up to the top of that tree,
that tree will topple
over, and you will fail.
Meaning, what is the
most important thing
that you can do to raise
that vibration of being
and have a more profound
understanding of that source
code and how it works?
And the answer is
the exact opposite
of what most people think it is.
It does not lie in the
spiritual aspects of you
that people think of.
It lies first and foremost
in your physical body,
because your physical
body is the dimension that
holds everything above it.
And until that's
clean, clear, and pure,
reaching those
higher levels will
be just like climbing
on top of the tree
with roots that are
rotten and not strong.
Does that make sense?
GEORGE: It does.
Has anybody ever
told you, Jason,
that you possess
an amazing aura?
SHURKA: I appreciate that.
Thank you very much.
GEORGE: I can see it when
you walked into the studio.
SHURKA: I'll tell you one thing.
For me, and I know
many others that
are on this path, many of
us in this community of Gaia
and the spiritual
community in general,
it's one thing to
think about this,
but sharing it, like right
now, as I'm sharing it,
I feel more of it.
It excites me more.
And that's another
thing that you can do.
It's not just eating clean
and thinking clean, but it's--
sharing and giving gives
you more to share and give.
GEORGE: It's radiating off you.
SHURKA: Yes, because that's
what happens when you give.
A lot of people think
you need to take first
in order to give more.
And no, you need to give more
in order to receive more.
It's the exact opposite.
But that's how I feel right now.
That's why I love
doing this work.
GEORGE: Did you ever think
you would be doing it?
SHURKA: No.
I thought I was going to grow
up and my family's business,
and take over the real
estate empire that they have,
and do all that and move on.
That's what I thought.
GEORGE: Aren't you
glad you did not?
SHURKA: Yeah.
Listen, I think
everybody has a destiny.
Everybody has a destiny.
And no matter what happens,
you will reach that destiny.
I'm happy, and I'm grateful for
the way that things turn out.
And I think that's a lesson
for all of us at home as well.
When we go through
things in our lives,
whatever you think is
going to happen may not be,
and most probably won't be,
what's actually going to happen.
But if we can roll with
the punches and trust what
comes our way and understand
that it happens for us and not
to us, you literally
transition from victimhood,
into this mastership of life.
Now, is it easy to be
there all the time?
No, because in life--
GEORGE: It takes work.
SHURKA: It takes high
points and low points.
And low points are bad.
Low points are where
we gain more tools,
and high points are where
we master those tools.
But think of it
like this, George.
If I gave you a
toolbox right now,
new tools you've never used
before, you'd be excited.
You may be like, what do I do?
But there is an exciting
thing because you
can build something new.
GEORGE: I'll put
them on the shelf.
SHURKA: And you're going to
start using them and saying,
how do I use them?
But once you start
mastering them
and you've done everything
you could with those tools,
wouldn't the next logical step
to be giving a new toolbox
with the next level?
GEORGE: You would think.
SHURKA: That's how life works,
and high points and low points.
Your low points, which
we call the bad points,
they're kind of difficult
for us to accept,
but we're receiving new tools.
And your high points are the
point where you master them.
Everything's amazing.
It's all great.
But once you do
that, you're not just
going to stay there in life.
You need to receive
the next toolbox.
And that's where
you go low again.
And then you go back up,
and you keep doing that.
But it's not a graph like this.
It's a graph that's positively
sloping in order to bring you
higher every single time.
GEORGE: Where does the law
of oneness fit into this?
SHURKA: The fact that everything
is interconnected to everything,
and that is one of the
most important laws.
Because when we understand
that everything is connected
to everything, and we
see through the illusion
that I am separate than you,
because although there may
be space between
us energetically,
we are more connected than ever.
You are just an oscillation in
this unified, energetic field
that I experience and
perceive as George.
You are energy, and so am I.
We are part of the same field.
Now imagine, George,
if everybody actually
not just understood that,
but embodied that and lived
according to that,
war would never exist.
Poverty would never
be allowed to exist.
Crime would never exist.
All of us are asking
every single day,
how do we make this
world a better place.
And the answer is much simpler
than most people think.
If we are all interconnected,
and I do my part
to radiate the embodiment of
the highest possible energy
and consciousness there is, I
will naturally be impacting you
and give you the
ability to do the same.
GEORGE: Do you
teach others this?
SHURKA: I live by it.
And by living by it, you don't
actually have to speak about it.
You've heard of the hundredth
monkey effect, right?
GEORGE: Right.
SHURKA: That basically shows us,
and we see it in nature today.
An island here, an island here.
And these birds don't know
anything about these birds.
And these birds and
this population of birds
start doing something different.
And somehow these birds that
don't know about these birds
start doing the
same exact thing.
The reason why is
because they're
all tuned into
this cosmic field,
into this unified consciousness
that they're all tuned into,
whether they know it or not.
And we are no different.
Now, it just turns out to be
that right now, unfortunately,
most of humanity is tuned in
to the collective frequency,
the collective resonance
of war, of greed,
of crime, and so
on and so forth.
But the more of us that choose
the opposite, the more of us
will begin to
choose the opposite.
Meaning, teaching
about it is great,
but living it is the best
possible thing you can do.
GEORGE: People learn from that.
SHURKA: They start
having spontaneous ideas
and understandings of
how the world works
by you doing your part,
even if you're silent.
GEORGE: Why don't our
leaders practice this?
SHURKA: Because our leaders
are an expression of us.
We're not victims to them.
That's the law of oneness
and the law of reflection.
GEORGE: What is the
law of vibration?
SHURKA: That you experience
what you're in resonance with.
Meaning, if we are all
tuning into a frequency of--
or let's say on an
individual level--
you keep thinking the
worst is going to happen.
Bad's going to happen.
By the way, we're all guilty
of this, including myself.
We just got to pull
ourselves out of it.
So if you're going to constantly
think this is bad, this is bad,
I'm going to get sick.
GEORGE: Negative,
negative, negative.
SHURKA: Well, naturally, people
call it the law of attraction,
but it's really as simple as how
radios and walkie-talkie works.
Your words, your thoughts, your
beliefs, they hold frequencies.
Those frequencies will attract
the same frequencies to them.
They will resonate with
those same frequencies.
So it's not just this
idea, it's a science,
where if you take two tuning
forks and both are tuned
to 432 hertz, when I
hit this tuning fork,
this tuning fork will start
vibrating because they are
in resonance with each other.
So the law of vibration
states, once again,
you experience what you
are in resonance with.
And right now, we are
all on this planet,
experiencing what we
are in resonance with.
And part of that experience
are our corrupt leaders.
GEORGE: How many laws are
there out there, Jason?
SHURKA: Probably
an infinite number.
GEORGE: I mean, the
law of reflection,
the law of cause and effect.
What are they?
SHURKA: Well, they all boil
down to the same exact thing.
That everything
is interconnected,
that everything is one,
and that everything is
interdependent on each other.
GEORGE: It's like a
wireless internet.
SHURKA: Basically.
But when you boil it
down, a lot people
make it really,
really complicated.
And it doesn't have
to be complicated
because there are just a few
laws that make up infinity.
And some people will say,
well, how does that make sense?
So I'll give you an analogy.
How many numbers
make up infinity.
And the answer is 10.
0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.
Those 10 digits will
make up any number.
GEORGE: Go on forever.
SHURKA: Forever.
In that same way,
understanding reality
doesn't have to be complex.
Because I just showed you how
something finite makes something
infinite.
In that same way, a
finite number of laws
can teach you how
to access infinity.
That's what Accessing Awareness,
that book, is all about.
GEORGE: Do think and it becomes?
Do you manifest
things on your own?
Do you create them?
SHURKA: Well, when you
understand source code, when
you understand the
mechanism of consciousness,
nothing exists outside of you.
And technically, no, you're
not creating anything.
Everything already exists.
What you're doing is
accessing infinite potential.
That's why that book is
called Accessing Awareness.
Because it shifts our mind.
It shifts our understanding
from a place of knowledge
to a place of true awareness.
GEORGE: It's a great title.
SHURKA: We could have
said, creating awareness.
But if energy cannot be
created or destroyed,
and it's already infinite, then
how can I create something?
GEORGE: You have what is called
the Seven steps of reprogramming
cycle.
SHURKA: Yes.
GEORGE: Let's take a picture.
Tell us what we're
looking at here.
What is this?
SHURKA: So this is teaching
you how to reprogram yourself
because you are an
expression, or I should say,
your life is an expression
of your mind's program.
So we first have to
understand with this
that it is your mind's program
that makes up your life.
GEORGE: Do we start with
thought, belief in mind.
SHURKA: So the
question is, how do we
reprogram the mind in
order to have a better
expression of our lives?
It starts with a thought
and belief in your mind
as the first step.
It goes to step two, which is
the reflection of that thought
and belief in your mind.
So instead of just saying
words, let's give examples.
You may think I'm never
going to find the one.
And that thought is a
frequency from step one, which
will reflect in step two as, I'm
not finding that person for me,
I'm not finding my soulmate.
Why is this happening to me?
Step three is then
going to bring you
to analyzing the
programming of your mind
by observing your words.
So your mind's program is
made up of three things--
thought, belief, and words.
It's very hard to say change
your thought and belief,
but it's very easy
to say, pay attention
to your words, which are an
expression of your thought
and belief.
And when you can change your
words, which are made up
of frequencies, you then imprint
your thoughts and beliefs
in a different way.
This is down to a science.
But to be able to understand
which words, you want to change,
in order to change
the program, you first
have to analyze them by
observing those words.
Now, you begin to use
specific words according
to specific formulas
that we can speak about,
to reprogram your mind.
There are certain words
that will hold you back.
There are certain words that
will propel you forward.
There are certain
words that will
create a positive and productive
imprint on your minds program.
And there are certain words
that will do the exact opposite.
For example, words
like will, want, not.
GEORGE: Should.
SHURKA: Should.
They're problematic.
GEORGE: See, I have
picked up on you already.
SHURKA: They're problematic.
So one of the main formulas
on here of understanding which
words to choose is based on,
what I like to call, the "I am"
formula based on
the acronym S-I-P.
The subject you focus on, the
implication of that subject,
and are you stating that
in the present tense.
You don't have to say I am,
but I'll give you an example.
If you say, I want
to be healthy,
or I don't want to be sick.
Well, you're focusing on
the wrong topic already.
And if you've focused on
the right subject and say,
I want to be healthy,
you're forgetting the fact
that you already have
that in your field.
You don't need to want it.
You need to access it right now.
GEORGE: It's not what
God said to Moses--
I am.
SHURKA: I am.
It's one of the most powerful
words, you can bring forth,
but it's the principles that
we're really working on.
For example, thank you for
blessing me with health.
You don't have to
use the words I am.
But thank you for
blessing me with health
is using words to help
reprogram the mind.
And when you do that
over and over again,
you align with
different frequencies,
that impact your thoughts and
beliefs in a different way.
So that brings you to step
five, which is your new words,
become your new thoughts
and your new beliefs.
Your new thoughts
and your new beliefs
become that new minds program
because it's all energy.
Your new minds program
reflects your new life,
and it starts all over again.
It all comes down to you,
your thoughts, your beliefs,
and your words are
your greatest tool.
GEORGE: Did anybody teach you
this or did you experience it?
SHURKA: I reverse
engineered what
I did in my life that
worked by chance,
and I understood
that it wasn't luck.
There was a reason.
That's the law of
cause and effect.
GEORGE: How many people
cannot do what you did?
SHURKA: Everybody can do it.
GEORGE: You sure?
SHURKA: I'm positive.
GEORGE: It's that easy?
SHURKA: Nobody said it's easy.
But if you put your
focus on something
and you want to get
somewhere, you will get there.
Now, I just want to make
something very clear.
You said how many
people can do it?
The very fact that I did it
means everybody can do it.
GEORGE: Yeah, but you were under
a crisis situation, weren't you?
SHURKA: Yes.
But again, the
interconnectedness
of each and every one of
us, the experiences you
go through, teach me something.
How?
Because the experiences
you go through
allow you to evolve
in certain ways.
This is now the law of oneness.
GEORGE: Do we need
a crisis to react?
SHURKA: No.
But they do help.
GEORGE: Makes it
easier, doesn't it?
SHURKA: I mean, if
you're smooth sailing,
are you really going
to get stronger?
It's kind of a law
in and of itself.
You're going to the gym.
Are you going to get stronger
muscles if you're not picking up
a weight?
The implication on the word
crisis is a negative thing.
I call them blessings.
We just need to change
our perspective on it.
GEORGE: Give us
an example, Jason,
of how you would utilize
this in your day to day life.
SHURKA: Every time something
negative happens to you
throughout the day.
GEORGE: Constantly.
SHURKA: Constantly.
You have a choice.
Not what happened
to you, but how
do you choose to respond to
it from the perspective of,
why is this happening for me?
So how do I actually apply this?
I change one word
in my sentence,
and in the very
beginning, I used
to put it in a reminder in my
phone every hour, every day,
until it became second nature.
And that's what I
recommend people
do to make it become
second nature.
What is that one word?
Instead of, why is
this happening to me?
The "to" changes
to the word "for".
How is this happening for me?
Why is this happening for me?
GEORGE: You turned
it into a positive.
SHURKA: Because
it is a positive.
Because-- back to Parmenides--
the way of truth
has no opposite.
Meaning, in that world--
the fundamental world of gods--
there is no good and bad.
There is good.
In the world of opinion,
there is good and bad.
Now, some may say, but
Jason, my son died.
How are you saying
that's a good thing?
How can you say that the loss
of a child is a good thing?
That's not what I'm saying.
GEORGE: No, it's not.
SHURKA: In the world
of physicality,
it's a horrible thing.
But pain and suffering
are two different things.
It's OK to be in pain of
the negative things that
happen in the physical world.
But suffering only exists when
you forget the way of truth,
because your son or your
daughter that you may have lost
has a soul that came
here with a purpose.
And you know that your soul
and their soul is intertwined,
and you know that everything
is happening for you.
And they came here
to teach you a lesson
and vice versa to help you grow.
And when you can see it
from that perspective.
You may be in pain, but
you don't have to suffer.
How do you apply it?
You remember every
second of every day.
Everything is happening
for me one way or another.
Now the question is,
where is the blessing?
When you look for
it, you will find it.
We have two aspects
to ourselves.
We have our higher
selves, and we have our--
us in our body
that we experience.
The higher self of yourself,
we call divine will.
You and your body,
we call free will.
They work together
constantly and the goal
is to align both if you want
to reach the highest levels.
Now, the analogy that I'll share
with you is driving in a car.
Let's say, you and me
represent the divine will
and the free will
of one individual.
GEORGE: All right.
SHURKA: You are the divine will.
I am the free will.
We're sitting in
a car right now.
You're on one side
with a steering wheel
and brakes and gas, and I'm on
the other side with a steering
wheel of brakes and gas.
And we know as the divine
will and the free will
where we each want to go.
GEORGE: Same car or two cars?
SHURKA: Same car.
As a matter of fact,
I'll make it simpler.
One car, two parts
of the same driver.
Divine will and free will.
Divine will knows the path and
the purpose of the higher self.
Free will does not, because
it came here to learn that.
But free will is
leading that car.
Until divine will
comes and intervenes.
So free will is driving,
driving, driving, driving.
Divine will is
there just in case.
And free will makes
a right turn, only
to forget that on the path
in the street that they're
driving on, there are trees
that it's about to crash into.
Divine will see that
because it can see ahead.
So it immediately jerks
the car back onto the road.
But free will doesn't
know that because it's
unaware of what
divine will is doing.
So what happens, free
will hits its head
against the wind,
the window, and says,
why is this happening to me?
But if free will was
aware of divine will,
it would have understood
that divine will is
doing its best to save its
life and to keep it on track.
That's what hardships
in our lives are.
It's us in the driver's
seat of free will,
with the partition between
us not seeing divine will,
forgetting that
everything is happening
for us to keep us on track.
It's all about free will
realigning itself right back
onto that road.
But sometimes we may
not be aware of it,
and sometimes we need to get
hit in order to wake up, which
goes back to the crisis.
We call it a crisis.
We call it a bad thing.
But it's that very
thing that saved you
from driving and crashing
straight into that tree that
would have killed you.
GEORGE: Who can get you back
on that path of righteousness?
SHURKA: Yourself
will always try to.
Now, call it divine will.
Call it divine consciousness.
Call it God.
Call it whatever you want.
I don't care what you call it.
You will always be brought
back onto that path,
unless you continuously choose
not to go back onto that path.
At which point, if you do
that over and over again,
you have no reason
to be here anymore.
You move on come
back, you try again.
We call that reincarnation
the evolution process.
GEORGE: Why would we
want to come back?
SHURKA: Well, you
may not as George,
but your soul most
definitely does,
because the goal of
the soul is to learn.
GEORGE: I want to come
back as Jason Shurka.
SHURKA: I want to
come back as highly
evolved as you possibly can.
But to do that, we need to
go through those hard times.
And they're not meant to
bog you down and hurt you.
They're meant to teach you.
And again, we get
caught up in them.
I get caught up in them.
We all do.
But they're not there
to take you out.
GEORGE: How often do
you manifest things?
SHURKA: We all manifest
things all the time.
GEORGE: Constantly?
SHURKA: That's creation.
That's accession.
That's what we're
doing all the time.
How often do I do
it consciously,
is a whole different story.
Because there's manifestation.
And then there's
conscious manifestation.
I do it pretty often.
Every single morning I sit
down, I meditate, I pray, I ask,
I thank, and I move on.
GEORGE: What is SIP formula.
SHURKA: That is
the "I am" formula.
Subject, implication,
present tense.
The subject you focus
on must be the subject
that you want to access,
want to experience.
The implication of that
subject must be not,
will, want, or don't have.
But thank you for already
providing it to me.
And present tense is stating
it in the present tense.
So, so long as your intention
is expressed according to that
acronym, which is
that "I am" formula.
Subject, positive
focus, implication
of that subject,
and present tense,
it will make it a
whole lot easier
to be able to
consciously manifest.
GEORGE: What is IBV formula?
SHURKA: IBV is making the "I
am" formula 10 times stronger.
Intent, belief, visualization.
Your intent must be aligned
with the "I am" formula--
your subject, your implication,
your present tense.
Your belief must be
undoubted because it's
one thing to have a
belief and say, maybe,
but it's kind of
hard, I don't know.
That's already going to
align yourself with something
you may not be able to
access, something you may not
be able to experience.
So your belief
must be undoubted,
and your visualization
must be crystal clear.
And there's a way to play
between both of those,
because for some, it's hard to
be able to believe something,
but it's easier to
be able to see it.
And for others, it's hard
to be able to see something,
but it's easy to be
able to believe it.
If you can hone in
on one, the other one
will be a whole lot easier.
GEORGE: Jason, when you
were going through these 23
separations of your
shoulder, the three
surgeries, the possible leg
amputation, did you cry?
SHURKA: Every day.
GEORGE: What was that like?
SHURKA: Horrible.
And yet amazing at the
same time, every day.
GEORGE: Was it a living hell?
SHURKA: Yes.
That brought me to heaven.
GEORGE: Did that get
you on the right track?
SHURKA: Of course.
Yes.
GEORGE: Truly remarkable.
SHURKA: I think there's a lesson
there for all of us to learn,
which is important.
And I know that everybody
watching this right now
has something that they're
going through in their lives.
Nothing is there to hurt you.
Because if everything is
one and interconnected,
oneness source will never do
anything to hurt itself, ever.
And therefore, we
have to ask ourselves,
how is source trying to help
us right now in this hard time?
GEORGE: What's the
best advice, Jason,
you could give to
somebody who is going
through what you went through?
SHURKA: I am not
special in everybody's
gone through what I've gone
through in their own way.
Look for the hardest
things that have ever
happened to you in your life.
Focus on the people that are
the hardest people for you
to deal with in your life.
See them from a
lens of compassion.
See them from a lens
of understanding,
even though it's
difficult to understand.
And remember-- and this
is the biggest one--
never take anything
personally, ever.
If you can live according
to those very, very
simple little things
throughout your life,
specifically with never
taking anything personally,
you'll see people in
a whole different way
because that everybody's
just trying to do their best,
even if it seems hard,
even if it looks bad.
Everybody is doing their best
and with love, with compassion,
with forgiveness,
you can overcome
any obstacle in the world.
GEORGE: How do people find
your book Accessing Awareness?
SHURKA: On Amazon, on my
website jasonshurka.com,
Accessing Awareness and
many other books as well.
GEORGE: Stay healthy my friend.
SHURKA: Thank you
very much, George.
GEORGE: Thanks for
being on Beyond Belief.
SHURKA: Thank you for having me.
GEORGE: I'm not kidding.
When he walked
into the studio, he
had a glow about him, an aura.
Sometimes I have this
ability to see that,
that I haven't seen in
somebody in a long, long time.
And he brought it
to this program
with these lessons for all of us
to learn how to get by in life.
Thanks for watching
Beyond Belief.
[MUSIC PLAYING]